guide updates for knative quick start update (#7100)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/getting-started-knative.adoc

include::./attributes.adoc[]
:experimental:

This guide covers:

> * The deployment of the application to Knative

Reviewer: Maybe let's remove the bullet list if you have only one item (and add a dot at the end of the sentence)?

For this guide you need:

* roughly 20 minutes

> * having access to a Kubernetes cluster. Minikube are valid options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* having access to a Kubernetes cluster. Minikube is a valid option.
```

For this guide you need:

* roughly 20 minutes
* having access to a Kubernetes cluster. Minikube is a valid option.
* having deployed Knative components on https://knative.dev/docs/install/knative-with-minikube/[minikube]
* having https://https://skaffold.dev/[Skaffold] CLI on your PATH

== Solution

We recommend to follow the instructions in the next sections and build the application step by step. However, you can go right to the completed example.

Clone the Git repository: `git clone {quickstarts-clone-url}`, or download an {quickstarts-archive-url}[archive].

The solution is located in the `getting-started-knative` directory.

== Set up Kubernetes Cluster

The following script will start minikube and deploy Knative.

[source,bash]
----
./bin/start-minikube.sh
eval $(minikube docker-env) #<1>
----

<1> Make the current Docker context to be that of minikube

== Set up Nexus(Optional)

Nexus is used for caching maven artifacts so that Apache Maven builds are faster.

[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f k8s/nexus.yaml
----

Wait for some time to have Nexus initialize and run. You can watch the status via `kubectl get pods -w`, use kbd:[Ctrl+c] to terminate the watch.

> == Why Skaffold ?

Reviewer 2: Why Skaffold? Shouldn't we offer an integral solution? Now that we have Jib support maybe the guide should be updated to use Jib? At least let's offer a single way of doing things to not confuse the users.

The solution is located in the `getting-started-knative` directory.

> == Setup Kubernetes Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Set up Kubernetes Cluster
```

The following script will start minikube and deploy Knative.

[source,bash]
----
./bin/start-minikube.sh
eval $(minikube docker-env) #<1>
----

> <1> Make the current docker context to be that of minikube

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Make the current Docker context to be that of minikube
```

> == Setup Nexus(Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Set up Nexus (Optional)
```

> Nexus is used for caching maven artifacts so that Apache Maven builds are faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nexus is used for caching Maven artifacts so that Apache Maven builds are faster.
```

[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f k8s/nexus.yaml
----

> Wait for some time to have nexus initialize and run. You can watch the status via `kubectl get pods -w`, use kbd:[Ctrl+c] to terminate the watch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait for some time to have Nexus initialized and run. You can watch the status via `kubectl get pods -w`, use kbd:[Ctrl+c] to terminate the watch.
```

== Why skaffold ?

> As vanilla Kubernetes does not have a easy and developer friendly way to build and deploy application to local cluster, without the need to push the image to external container registry. We will be using skaffold to help us build and deploy the Quarkus application onto Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As vanilla Kubernetes does not have an easy and developer friendly way to build and deploy applications to a local cluster without the need to push the image to an external container registry, we will be using Skaffold to help us build and deploy the Quarkus application onto Kubernetes.
```

== Build and deploy application

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The container image will not be pushed to remote container registry, and hence the container image url has to be `dev.local`, to make Knative deploy it without trying to pull it from external container registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The container image will not be pushed to a remote container registry, and hence the container image url has to be `dev.local`, to make Knative deploy it without trying to pull it from an external container registry.
```

====

> To run Knative Quarkus application, we need to use the multi stage docker build; to build the quarkus application container image and use it in Kubernetes application deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Knative Quarkus applications, we need to use the multi-stage Docker build to build the Quarkus application container image and use it in the Kubernetes application deployment.
```

> The following commands starts a one time deployment of Quarkus application and runs starts the Knative service after successful container image build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following commands start a one time deployment of the Quarkus application and starts the Knative service after successfully building the container image.
```

[NOTE]
====

> If you want to deploy Quarkus JVM image then run the following command before running skaffold:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to deploy a Quarkus JVM-based application then run the following command before running Skaffold:
```

[source,bash]
----
cp src/main/docker/Dockerfile.jvm Dockerfile
----

> If you want to deploy Quarkus Native image then run the following command before running skaffold:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to deploy a Quarkus native executable (using GraalVM) then run the following command before running Skaffold:
```

[source,bash]
----
cp src/main/docker/Dockerfile.native Dockerfile
----

> It is very important to note that the Dockerfile in src/main/docker folder has been modified to support 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is very important to note that the Dockerfile in the `src/main/docker` folder has been modified to support 
```

> It is very important to note that the Dockerfile in src/main/docker folder has been modified to support 

Reviewer: to support what?

====

[source,bash]
----
skaffold run
----

> As it will take few minutes for the build and deploy to be completed you can watch the status using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As it will take a few minutes for the build and deployment to complete, you can watch the status using:
```

[source,bash]
----
watch kubectl get pods 
----

> A successful Knative Service deployment will show the following pods in the current namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful Knative service deployment will show the following pods in the current namespace:
```

[source,bash]
----
NAME                                     READY   STATUS    AGE
greeter-deployment-5749cc98fc-gs6zr      2/2     Running   10s
----

> NOTE: The deployment name could differ in your environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The deployment name could differ in your environment.
```

> Once the Knative service is successfully running, you can call the service it using the script `./bin/call.sh`, which should return a response like `hello`. Allowing it to idle for approximately 60-65 seconds -- that is without any further requests --, you will see it automatically scales down to zero pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Knative service is successfully running, you can call the service using the script `./bin/call.sh`, which should return a response like `hello`. Allowing it to idle for approximately 60-65 seconds - that is without any further requests -, you will see it automatically scales down to zero pods.
```
